Unauthenticated Scanning With Nessus
To launch the scan, we will click the
arrow next to Save and then click Launch.
Initially, the scan will
have a status of Running.
Once the scan is finished,
the status will change to Completed.
The scan time will vary based on many
factors including the scan configuration
and the speed of the network.
From the “My Scans” screen,
we can click on the scan name
to show the list of hosts
discovered during the scan
and the breakdow of
potential vulnerabilities.
Whether we scan one host or many,
we can click on an IP address or hostname
to display the vulnerabilities
discovered for that target.
We can filter these
vulnerabilities by severity,
exploitability,
CVE, and more.
To display the vulnerabilities that will
most likely lead to target compromise,
we can click on the filter dropdown
and select “Exploit Available”.
We’ll accept the rest of
the defaults and click Apply.
This will display a
list of vulnerabilities
in groups that are defined by Nessus.
While this grouping can be useful,
we will click the gear icon
at the top right of the table,
and select “Disable Groups”.
This lists all vulnerabilities on
a single page, sorted by severity.
This output format is
perfect for our purposes
as it displays a kind of roadmap to
potential compromise of the target,
with highest-risk vulnerabilities
displayed first.
Of course, some of the entries
may represent false positives,
which is why it is critical
to review the scan data
and manually test the scan results.